getdata-course-project
======================

Repository for the course project of Coursera Class "Getting and Cleaning Data" by Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health (cf. https://class.coursera.org/getdata-004/)

## Data Processing

The main R code for loading, processing and tidily exporting the Samsung Galaxy S accelerometer data lives in file `run_analysis.R`. While the code is neatly commented, these are the steps of the data processing pipeline:

1. loading required `reshape2` library and setting working directory
2. loading feature names from file `features.txt` - the feature labels themselves live in the second column
3. loading the test data from file `X_test.txt`
4. removing possibly problematic characters from column names and making them more readble in the process by removing all `.`s using `gsub` and `make.names`
5. loading activity information for test data from file `y_test.txt`, and providing the data a more descriptive column name
6. loading subject information for test data from file `subject_test.txt`, and providing the data a more descriptive column name
7. repeating steps 2-6 for the training data
8. loading activity labels from file `activity_labels.txt` and providing the data more descriptive column names
9. combining the accelerometer data, activity data and subject data for the test data set using `cbind`
10. repeating step 9 for the training data
11. combining the test and training data sets using `rbind` -> **course project requirement 1**
12. removing all unnecessary columns from the new data set, i.e. all that don't contain information about subject, activity, or and mean or standard deviation data using `grep` - this might leave unnecessary columns in the dataset, yet the course project description did not provide the details necessary to identify the required columns -> **course project requirement 2**
13. merging the activity labels from the activity label data to the new data set -> **course project requirement 3**
14. removing an unnecessary coulmn from the new, merged data set, that was generated by the merge in step 13 and renaming the column containing the activity label more descriptively -> **course project requirement 4**
15. creating second, independent tidy data set with average of each variable for each activity and each subject using `melt` and `dcast` -> **course project requirement 5**
16. exporting the new tidy data set to a CSV file `tidydata.txt` in the working directory

## Data Description

Detailed information about the data structure can be found in the file CodeBook.md.
